Welcome back everybody.
So in the last less than we talked about reactive memo and a little bit about react pure component now
pure component and RAC memo are very similar.
So it just depends on which component you're using it on.
If you're using it on a class component use pure component.
If you're using a functional component use react memo.
I'm going to focus on react memo because it's pretty much the same lesson.
The only difference is just what you use when you instantiate your component.
So it's very much overlapping but let's continue with our lesson on react memo and optimizations with
it.
So another concern we have to remember is that while this react memo saves us on shallow comparisons
of our props it does not save us on referential quality.
Meaning that if instead of passing person in this way where we have it as a static value or it always
points to the same object in memory.
If I were to instead change it so that I pass in a value like so where I'm instantiating the actual
object directly in line of my return statement what happens is that every time return and render it
gets called a new object is getting generated every single time because javascript is simply re instantiating
everything when it runs through our render which means that when it hits this line it sees that a new
object declaration in line has been made.
So it's just going to create a new object which means that even though we've memorized our actual button
we're still going to re render every single time because every time the rendered cat call gets made
a new object gets made that gets passed into our person and wrap moment which would save us then because
it says that oh person is actually a new object I'm just going to assume that we need to re render because
it's a brand new prop so that's one thing to remember that we have to be careful about if we're trying
to actually optimize our code is in lining objects like this.
So let's change this back to using our person state property but let's also keep in mind that in JavaScript
functions and arrays are also objects.
So if we inline functions or if we inline arrays we have to remember to be careful there as well.
Just to be aware that those are going to be re renders that will skip our ReACT memorization because
those props will also always evaluate to being a different prop if we're in lining and passing and functions
as properties to memorize components again.
The main thing to remember as well is that before you start optimizing and moving your functions out
into places where they don't change and we try and make them more static by the reference of what we're
passing into our memoirs components think about whether or not that's actually worthwhile because again
actually doing that and instantiating that does come with some performance risks itself.
When we look at how it's slowed down the initial mount time of our person component when we called react
memo so Jews are just again things that you've got to keep in mind always optimize when there a problem
first but these aren't gotchas that you should be aware of when it comes to optimizing your components
when you actually need to.
So let's take this and actually apply to something in our application that we've already seen because
now that we've learned what it is that it does.
How do we actually apply it into our application.
Well there's actually a couple of caveats we have to remember with our application we are using react
redux and we're also using re select which means that a lot of our components get their prompts not
from their pair of components but from redux.
And the Kinect higher order component pattern that we used because a lot of our actual prop derivation
is decided by map states of props and are re select because we've used create select or re select everywhere
a lot of our actual props are already memorized meaning that unless the actual props coming into our
selector functions has changed we will not actually get new props meaning that our components will not
re render.
So that's a very important thing to remember about our application.
We do already have performance improvements over native react applications because we're using the right
redux libraries to optimize our code already.
Other than that though you might want to look around the application and only when you notice that there
is some slowdowns then perform an optimization.
So one that I can guess probably is going to be a problem is in our card dropdown component if we were
to open up our dev tools and go to our ReACT profiler and let's say for example we go to our jackets
page we open our dropdown and I start adding items if I start profiling and I add two black jackets
to Blue Jackets and five grey jackets if I stopped the profiler we'll see there's really much larger
nest of components because we have way more components inside of our application but if I go into my
header and then in the header component I go down to the car drop the inside of the car dropdown I will
see the car item that I had this car item is my black jean shilling jacket.
Well actually see here that my black jean shilling jacket ended up getting re rendered nine times even
though I only modified the value that got passed in as the prompted black shilling which was the quantity
object on our car item twice the first time when I added it.
And the second time when I added another one these are technically the only times that this component
should have re rendered.
But why did it render for every single new component that got added.
Well this is because inside of the card dropdown component are car items is changing the array of car
items is completely changed meaning that all every car item is getting re rendered.
But we don't actually want to do that.
We want our cart item to only update when it has to.
So this only should occur if the item that got passed in ever changes.
So this is a great time for us to memorize this card.
Item so here what we can do is we can say react on the memo on our cart item.
Like so if I save this and now if I go back to my application and then I start the profiler and then
I add one black shilling to Blue Jackets and five more gray jackets if we look inside of our head or
now and we look inside of our car dropdown we'll see that our car components are getting normalized
but what we'll also see is that we're only rendering them the one additional time whenever we added
something to it.
So here we'll see that our black shilling jacket only added 1 3 render instead of the possible 7 because
we updated 7 items.
If we go back up and look at the blue jean jacket we'll see that they've got to renders because I added
two items for blue jean jacket and subsequently we'll see that are great jean jacket will render five
times for the five that they got added It didn't get the initial three from the black and the Blue Jackets
respectively being added.
So here we can see we've done a performance optimization because we've saved ourselves on numerous re
renders across any number of car items that were inside of our cart dropdown to begin with.
So this is a handy re render that we just did.
Now if you would like you can go around the application and play with the profiler and actually see
how many re renders are happening and decide from there whether or not the performance saves based on
the amount of milliseconds you save and the amount of re renders that are actually happening is worth
it.
Because this is a great time to practice and performance is all about getting dirty with the optimizer
and reading it and getting in there and just seeing what's actually improving and what's not.
This is more of an exercise for you get comfortable with the profiler.
Again in actual production when you actually see slowdowns or you when you actually see complaints then
is when you should start identifying a problem and then optimizing don't get too overzealous with optimizing
ahead of time just because you assume there might be a performance problem.
You always want to measure with the profiler first before you start optimizing.
So hopefully this lesson helps.
Optimization is really just in react these few steps adding lazy loading to routes whenever you can
memorizing components when you see that there is slow down because of the number of renters that are
happening and you either use pure component or react memo depending on the type of component that you
have so hopefully that was a useful lesson.
And I just hope that you got there with that idea that always you should only optimize when necessary
in the next lesson.
We are actually going to go back and explore some optimization hooks.
So I'll see you in the next lesson.